>> Steve Kinney: So let's take a look,
and we'll go first to a good friend,
Chrome, and
I have another glitch ready for us.
And so this one is called dream catcher.
I'm good at naming things, I don't
know if you all noticed that today.
>> Steve Kinney: .me, cool, and this,
when it loads, is an application for
me to keep track of my dreams.
>> Steve Kinney: And
what we'll do is we'll add a new dream.
we'll submit that in there.
>> Steve Kinney: And you see that I've
added there, and
everything works great.
Let's go ahead and let's just imagine
that I don't have connectivity.
Seems like a legitimate thing.
I can go ahead and refresh this page.
All right, everything works great, works
offline, as we've come to expect after
our long hard two days of learning
how to build offline apps.
All right, so
let's say what should my dream be?
>> Speaker 1: [INAUDIBLE]
>> Steve Kinney: That dream is gone.
>> Speaker 1: [LAUGH]
>> Steve Kinney: That dream is over.
Don't get eaten by a spaghetti monster.
And the way we've handled this
is we've said okay, added, neat.
It hasn't, right, cuz I turned off Wi-fi,
that's not a thing.
Let's actually turn it back on, cuz it
takes a second, and we'll reconnect.
>> Steve Kinney: I can go ahead and
refresh the page, or
if you don't believe me to see it's not
on the DOM, I can open up a new page
>> Steve Kinney: And there it is, right?
We had a sync event that happened.
As soon as the browser reconnected,
it sent my sync event,
we have it on the server, right?
Let's go take a look at
what this code looks like.
>> Steve Kinney: So
here's our service worker.
>> Steve Kinney: Let's get all
the screen real estate we deserve here.
>> Steve Kinney: And we cache the assets,
as we have come to expect,
we cache the stylesheet.
We have just an instance
of IndexedDB here, and
some database abstractions of putting
stuff in the database and taking it back
out again, right, that is all prior
art that we have seen earlier today.
We will clear out previous
caches when that's happened.
When we fetch,
we will see if we can get it from network.
If not, we'll pull it from the cache.
And if this looks like a lot,
keep in mind that there are a lot
of console logs in here.
When a sync event happens,
we'll go ahead and
we'll get all of the dreams
from Indexed.DB, right?
We're gonna filter out the ones that have
an unsynced = true property on them.
And we'll use promise.all, and
in this case it's a very simple server,
we'll send a bunch of POST requests
which each one of those dreams that
have been unsynced to the server.
If that is successful, we will update them
in the database as they are now synced.
Whenever we do have network connection,
we are getting this source of truth again.
If we do have a network connection and
we can hit that,
we're gonna pull them all in, so
this will be everything from the server.
A more robust mechanism,
we might go ahead and try to dif
between ones that are there and ones from
the server, this is a very simple one.
We'll take the server for
granted if we have it, but
as soon as we connect we'll send
everything we have off to it.
Looking at the client,
>> Steve Kinney: What I really want you to
take away here is this is the original
implementation that was online only.
They would click the button,
we would send a post request, and
everything would work out great.
This didn't work online.
If we were offline it would just go and
everything would end.
But in this case we're actually not
even initially sending a fetch request.
What we're going to do
is we're immediately going
to schedule a sync event.
All right, we'll say if there's
a service worker, we'll go ahead and
we'll pull out everything we need.
We're gonna add it to
the page immediately,
cuz the single event hasn't
really occurred yet.
We're gonna optimistically assume
that everything went well and
is displayed in the user interface.
In the same way that if
I'm in a Twitter app and
I hit the like button, it's like yeah,
you did it, you did the thing.
Mark hasn't found out that
I liked his tweet yet, but
as far as I'm concerned in my
interaction with the application,
I have done my deed and
it has promised me that it will do it.
And this is useful for
things that aren't detrimental.
If my like to Mark's tweet doesn't go
through, I mean, he might be a little sad,
he might be like that
was a pretty dank name.
And I hope that he thought that I enjoyed
it, but it's not the end of the world.
Instead we're scheduling a sync, we're
immediately gonna put it on the page, and
then we'll handle everything
through this sync event.
We'll just go through the database, we'll
filter out all the ones that haven't been
synced as soon as we reconnect,
and we'll send them out, right?
How you do this in your application
is gonna change, right?
It depends on what you're
trying to implement, right?
This is just a very simple
illustration of how this works and
that the API is actually approachable,
right?
If I told you hey, implement background
sync and you had not seen this info,
you'd be like that is difficult,
I have no intention of doing it,
I will use Firebase, thank you very much.
Totally do it, there's a great
Frontend Master's course on it.
But if you wanna do it from the service
worker and you have your own server, all
these APIs are very approachable once you
understand that there are common patterns.
Right, hopefully it almost seems
repetitive when we show you some of the,
there is this event, you break stuff out.
There are these common patterns
that once you've kind of grasped,
how do you do is when
your application changes?